Minami Funakoshi
Daily Creative
09-06-2019

//Explain something interesting (or boring) about where you’re from, and compare it with somewhere else that’s nearby.//

Whenever I'm asked where I'm from, I always hesitate to answer. Is it my mother's hometown in Japan, where I was born in a hospital facing a Buddhist temple, or is it where I lived for the first few years of my life, which is Chennai, India? Or is it where I have spent the longest time, which is Japan, closely followed by Malaysia? One time, I answered that I'm from Asia. This made my Japanese parents upset.

But for the purposes of this exercise, I'll say I'm from Sakura, Chiba, which is where I spent seven years as a child. The city name is homographic to the Japanese word for cherry blossoms, but the two are unrelated. My family move there because my parents could afford to buy a European-style, red-bricked house big enough to fit two adults and three children. It had a garden, which my father filled with roses. The neighbourhood was new, and full of young families like us. It is the closest thing to an American suburb that I can think of in Japan.

The city has been heading for death. Young people do not want to live there -- it's two hours from Tokyo, which is just a little too far -- and like most suburbs, it is too sleepy. They have tried, and failed, to attract and retain residents. I heard that the elementary school I went to as a child, which was brand new when I was in first grade, was designed to be wheelchair-accessible because someone had the foresight to know that schools would eventually turn into elderly homes.

Akihiro is from a small town in Fukui prefecture in western Japan. It's a prefecture of the freshest seafood, the crispest sake, the best rice and the most coveted spectacle frames. It is also home to Tojinbo, a series of jagged cliffs overlooking the Sea of Japan most famous as a suicide hotspot. "At Japanese Cliffs, a Campaign to Combat Suicide," a  New York Times headline reads in 2009. "Is Pokemon Go helping stop suicide at hotspot in Japan?" was BBC's take.

People from Fukui excel at their craft, but tend to fall short on marketing. Akitakomachi, a cultivated variety of rice named after Akita prefecture, which developed it using seeds from Fukui. The two prefectures both insisted that the other prefecture gain recognition for its breeding; as a result, Akitakomachi is open source, and prefectures across Japan use this seed to grow rice.