The 2017 release of Wonder Woman briefly catapulted the question of female superhero representation into the mainstream. For some, the character is a feminist icon — even Gloria Steinem wrote about her — and many fans (though not all) felt this wasn't just another superhero movie, but rather a pivotal moment in the portrayal of women in popular culture.

But the truth is that the comics industry has had a complicated relationship with female characters. They are often hyper-sexualized, unnecessarily brutalized, stereotyped, and used as tokens. They're also rare. Only 26.7 percent of all DC and Marvel characters are female, and only 12 percent of mainstream superhero comics have female protagonists.

Looking beyond the gender ratio, an analysis of how the characters are named what types of superpoweres they have shows that they reinforce harmful gender stereotypes.



Three out of five comic book characters have at least one superpower, regardless of gender. When we categorize these powers, we find that there are some clear gender imbalances.

----
CHART 1: Strong, invulnerable men

CHART 2: Shrieking, emotional women
	
CHART 1: Strong men; thoughtful women

ENHANCED PHYSICAL ABILITIES VS MENTAL POWERS

The data suggest that less-physical powers — such as empathy, intellect, and telepathy — tend to be more represented among female characters. Men however, often have highly physical powers, as well as those that involve gadgets. Female characters dominate in relatively few physical abilities; and those where they do are often tied to gender stereotypes. Pheromone control — the ability to generate and control pheromones that affect emotional and physical states, such as sleep, fear, and pleasure — occurs five times as often in a female character. Sonic scream appears in twice as many female characters as male; and prehensile hair — the ability to control one’s own hair — appears in female characters seven times more often.
----
CHART 2: Hysteric women; sterotypes of shrieking women
SUPERNATURAL PHYSICAL ABILITIES

----
CHART 3: Men will be men; women will be girls

Character monikers follow a similar pattern to team names. Consider some of the most popular comic characters of all time: Batman, Wonder Woman, Ms. Marvel and Spider-Man. Eight percent of both male and female characters have gendered names. However, not all gendered names are equal; some fit a “diminutive” category. These are titles that are the younger, or infantilized versions of another name. For example, “girl” is the diminutive version of woman.


GIRL/BOY
MAN/WOMAN
MISS 
DOLL
----
CHART 3: 